    Throughout the computer science program here at Southern New Hampshire University, I have developed both the technical and the soft skills needed to enter the field of data
analytics. This ePortfolio highlights the skills I have learned in the last three years here and demonstrates how I used them in this final capstone project. While I wish to 
join the field of data analytics, my time in this program has helped me learn about many different concepts in computer science, such as working on projects for game 
development, graphic design, the SDLC, cyber security, full stack, databases, and more. I also was introduced to many different languages, such as Java, C++, Python, SQL, and 
R. I also practiced the less technical, but equally as important, skills, such as completing tasks before a due date, taking responsibility for asking questions when I don’t 
understand something, providing and accepting feedback from others, as well as documenting my work in a way that others can understand and build off of. 

    In many of the SNHU computer science courses, we use group discussions as a way to share our ideas and provide feedback to one another. Collaborating with a team was a 
great way to learn new skills and practice communicating with group members. Communicating with stakeholders is another key skill practiced throughout this program. For all our 
projects, we developed a pitch or review of our work that would replicate one we would provide to a future employer, client, or stakeholder. Communicating technical terms in 
regular jargon will help me communicate with all people from all types of backgrounds, allowing me to better share my work and gain valuable connections. In this specific 
project, you can see the skills I have learned in the areas of data structures and algorithms, software engineering, databases, and security. I made enhancements to a personal 
project in all four of these categories to strengthen its complexity and add beneficial features that increase the database's usability. With the use of dense ranking 
functions, window functions, temporary tables, common table expressions, constraints, and more, I was able to enhance my personal project and showcase my skills in all of these 
areas. All of these skills are showcased in this ePortfolio. 

    In this ePortfolio, I used a previous personal project to showcase my skills in the major areas of data structures and algorithms, software engineering, databases. The 
project includes a database of different companies that experienced partial or complete layoffs during the Covid-19 pandemic. It takes a look at data from the years of 2020-
2023 and provides information including name of company, where it was located, the number of layoffs it experienced on one or numerous occasions, the stage of the company, and 
how much funds were raised. Within the algorithms and data structure category, I added a composite index on country and date to help make querying faster and more efficient. I 
used this index to find how many layoffs different countries experienced, or how many layoffs occurred on a single day around the world. I also used a window function to show 
the top companies that experienced the most layoffs each year data was recorded. I included a rolling total common table expression to see the cumulative number of layoffs each 
month in different countries. 

    In the database category, I enhanced the previous window function made in the data structures category by adding a common table expression to make the query more readable 
and organized. This helped separate the logic, making it not only easier to read, but easier to query, too. In addition, I changed the types of some of the variables to help 
make querying more efficient and storage easier. I also added constraints to ensure that no future entries could have null values in some key columns, such as company or 
location. I also added data validation to ensure the times were in an appropriate range and the percentage of those laid off made sense. 

    Lastly, in the software design and engineering enhancements category, I first created a view that excluded the funds raised column. I thought about how if we might need to 
share this data with the public, there might be some information that we can’t or don’t want to disclose. I used an example where I chose not to share the information regarding 
the funds raised. Using views allows us to hide sensitive data from being shared or queried on, helping increase data security. I also created a view where there were no null 
values. In the case where accurate information is of the utmost importance, we may need to use a table where no null values exist. This is where a view can come in great use. I 
also created a stored procedure that allows us to see the top 30 companies that experienced the greatest number of total layoffs. A stored procedure helps encapsulate complex,
large queries and makes it easier for reuse later on.

    Throughout this project, I gave my best effort to enhance the three computer science categories and reach the five course outcomes. I used many different skills that I 
learned throughout my time at Southern New Hampshire University, both in class and outside of my courses, to enhance this artifact. I believe this project uses the skills I 
learned to effectively communicate the drastic impact that the Coronavirus pandemic had on the world, as well as how it affected the economy and businesses in many different 
countries. 

